welcome to my first vegetable garden
today I'm going to show you how to plant
onion bunches I purchased these at a
store there are four or five dollars for
a bunch of 50 and I made these or drew
these actually in January and I showed
you how to do it I showed you how to
over seed your cells so that you could
have onion bunches to plant come March
or April today's April 4th so these are
ready to go in the ground and they've
been growing for a good two months three
months so they're ready to go and again
when you grow them in cells onions are
almost indestructible so you can really
pack them in there as long as you keep
them watered and fed they're going to
grow and all I'm going to do is you know
gently pull these apart and I'm going to
plant them when you buy the bunches from
stores the root systems are going to be
dried out so you want to soak them in a
bowl of water for an hour too before you
plant before I get to those you want to
set your soil up put in some organic
matter I use peat moss and some other
things I use what's available you can
check out the other videos to get an
idea of how I do it but once you add
what you want to your soil turn it over
make sure the soil is really loose for
onions the bulbs aren't going to form
really well if the soil is a - clay or -
compact I put in my organic fertilizer
and all I'm going to do is mix it into
the top forages and you can see dollars
the soil is remove any weeds or things
that get in the way let me get rid of
that shovel and really just mix
everything in this is how my soil used
to look like really thick clay so it's
getting better every year even out the
planting area break up any clumps
and you want a nice flat surface that is
really I mean look how loose it is if
you reach in here the onions are could
have any trouble forming bulbs in the
soil and that's one of the key to the
onions is just really loose soil when
you buy your onions they're going to say
they're either short day onions or um
yeah they're short day onions mid day
long day onions the difference really is
is the length of days of light you have
in my area I want to grow on your day
onions which are the short days and it
really when if you go to Home Depot or
something usually they stock what's
relevant to your area but if you look
online you can look up your state of
your country and figure out what type of
onions you would grow so let them soak
let me show you just how to separate the
other onion bunches you can see how I
told you in the other videos these root
systems are almost indestructible you
can see they're breaking be gentle but
I'm being a little rougher just to prove
a point is you don't have to worry about
these breaking onions are going to grow
they're almost indestructible so look
how nice the root systems are they're
going to go right into this bed so
packed in there are five great onions
these are Spanish onions and I'm going
to plant the whole bed but basically
make a circle I think he's call for
every four inches so you want to do
about every four inches you can plant
them closer together if you're not going
to let them grow to full onion bulbs but
you make the hole deep enough let's see
let's do this one make the hole deep
enough so you can drop in the whole root
system but keep the roots
so that the bulb your roots are above
the soil wall just above the soil you
want the onion to form up here you don't
want to drop an onion down like this
it's just not going to bulb up so you
don't want to do that you want to plant
it so that the roots dropped all the way
down and then you backfill and just drop
it just like that that's almost perfect
that's where the onions get afford so
you're going to do every four inches let
me change this out I'm going to do these
a little bit closer the more space you
give them the greater chance they have
to getting to full size I'm going to be
eating these at all different stages of
development
and you can see that the root systems
are still like right there that's really
really important and I would just go
down the whole row up here I'm going to
grow these Georgia sweet onions and I
couldn't find seeds for these and plus
if you have an addiction I have to buy
stuff so you just take out no the onions
just like that and you're going to do
the same thing make a hole they don't
have really established root systems or
the root systems aren't as nice as the
ones I just did and just drop it in so
that it's above the ground that's the
planting instructions every four inches
or so make sure the roots drop down and
the onions are going to form above the
ground and that's basically how you put
the onions in three or four inches
around just drop them in you'd water
them in well make sure you have loose
soil put some fertilizer on top work the
fertilizer in and you're good to go hope
you enjoyed the video please check out
my blog at www.micaelaferrero.com